MOUNTAIN VIEW (KPIX 5)  A new kind of security
guard is on patrol in Silicon Valley: crime-fighting robots that
look like theyre straight out of a sci-fi movie. At
first glance, the K5 security robot looks like a cartoonish
Star Wars character. The vast majority of people see it
and go, Oh my God, thats so cute. Weve had
people go up and hug it, and embrace it for
whatever reason, said Stacy Stephens, co-founder of Knightscope, headquartered in
Mountain View. They are unarmed, but they are imposing: about
5 feet tall and 300 pounds, which very likely will
make someone think twice before committing a crime in their
presence. The first thing thats going to happen is the
burglar is going to spot the robot. And unfortunately, criminals
are inherently lazy. Theyre not looking for something thats going
to be confrontational, theyre looking for something thats going to
be an easy target, said Stacy Stephens, co-founder of Knightscope.
They see the robot and maybe they move down to
the next place down the street. The security robots are
autonomous, meaning they operate on their own. They dont chase
a bad guy down or make arrests. They are designed
to avoid confrontations. When someone steps right in front of
one, the robot will stop. Then it will redirect its
path around the person. All the while, sending video inside
to a control center where a human is monitoring. If
a would-be burglar persists, Stephens said, Then, the robot is
looking at the video, listening for glass breakage, any loud
sound that breaking in would cause. Well get the license
plate, picture of the vehicle, geotag location, and time. The
robots patrol using a similar technology as the self-driving Google
car. It has a LIDAR (light image detection and ranging)
thats doing a 3D map, Stephens said. It will geofence
itself and give itself a perimeter within which it will
operate. And it moves around within that perimeter freely and
it chooses its own path. The company said the robots
will be deployed in outdoor settings, such as corporate campuses,
college campuses and open air malls. If someone decides to
attack the robot, it could get uncomfortable. When first confronted,
they let out a loud chirp and notify the control
center. The chirps will get louder and louder as the
threat persists. A very, very loud alarm, said Stephens. Think
of a car alarm but much more intense. The security
robots are now patrolling in the Bay Area. The Knightscope
K5s are in effect at an undisclosed location in the
Silicon Valley. Unfortunately, I cannot share who it is, Stephens
said. Soon you will see them everywhere. The makers of
the robot said they have a long waiting list of
about four dozen companies waiting for a K5. They expect
next year.